BookEndpoint will act as our HTTP entry point.
This class has one method, getBooks,
that returns the list of books from the database using the BookRepository.
Notice how we just used CDI to inject the repository into our endpoint.
To turn this code into a RESTful web service,
we just annotate the class with @Path.
This indicates that the BookEndpoint will be hosted at the URI path www.
bookstore.
com/books.
The getBooks method is then marked to process HTTP GET requests,
thanks to the @GET annotation.
There is just one piece of information missing,
what is the representation of this list of books?
By using the producer's annotation,
we specify that this method returns a JSON representation of the list of books.
Notice also that the method returns an HTTP Response,
not a list of books per se.
The Response class allows some control over the HTTP
response returned from the endpoint.
So if the BookRepository returns no books, we send back an HTTP code NO_CONTENT.
So the Angular application knows there are no books to display on the page.
On the contrary, if there are books returned from the database,
JAX-RS will pass the list of books entity into a JSON
string and send it back into the response.
Something we also need to expose is the JSON representation of a single book.
So here the getBook method is annotated with both GET and Produces.
It then calls the BookRepository find by id method.
But how do we get this book identifier?
Well through the URI.
To get the JSON representation of the book with id 123,
we just point at the URI www.
bookstore.
com/books/123.
Then in terms of code,
the parameter is represented by a variable between curly braces,
that is passed with a PathParam annotation to the method.
Here the method takes a parameter called id, which is a number.
The method looks for the book into the database thanks to the repository,
returns its JSON representation if found,
or a status code 404 is not found.
The same pattern applies when we want to delete a book from the database,
but instead of an HTTP GET, we use the HTTP DELETE method.
So we will extract the parameter from the URI,
the book identifier, but instead of annotating with GET,
we use DELETE.
Quite obvious.
And the BookEndpoint invokes the repository to delete
the book in a transactional way.
And then it returns an empty HTTP body.
Let's create a book now.
The createBook method takes a book and persists it to the database.
This method is invoked with an HTTP POST and consumes
a JSON representation of a book.
Once the book is persisted into the database, what shall we return?
The good practice in REST is to return the URI of this newly created resource,
not the resource itself.
For that we use the special UriInfo API to allow us to build a URI of
the newly created book by passing its identifier.
We then return it in the HTTP response.
In short, GET, POST, AND DELETE provide basic CRUD operation for the web.
As you can see,
JAX-RS is HTTP centric by nature and has a set of clearly defined classes and annotation to deal with HTTP and URIs.